http://agiletrail.com/2011/11/14/42-tasks-for-a-scrum-masters-job/

Scrum masters job:

Meetings

Facilitating meetings for the team. This includes:
preparing
moderation
postprocessing
Holding retrospectives. Retrospectives are special meetings, therefore I count them separately.
Team Dynamics

Coaching team members (e.g. with one-on-one coachings).
Mediating through conflicts.
Helping the team to make decisions.
Fostering the developer team’s self-organisation.
Mediating the general conflict of goals between development team (high technical quality) and product owner (more features).
Learning

Continuing learning regarding everything Agile (e.g. visit user groups, attend conferences, read books, write blogs, etc.).
Consulting team members regarding everything Agile.
Helping the team to create information radiators.
Giving feedback to the team.
Encouraging the use of Agile Engineering Practices within the development team (this is a huge field to spent a Scrum Master’s time in, including e.g. one click releases, continuous delivery, feature flags, and many more).
Challenge team with Agile management innovations (e.g. FedEx-Days).
Exchanging constantly with other Scrum masters in the organisation (e.g. through community of practice).
Doing Gemba Walks.
Product

Helping to write or split user stories.
Helping to write or adapt product visions.
Helping to order product backlog items.
Helping with the release planning.
Being familiar with the team’s work (i.e. the product).
Big Picture

Bringing people together who should talk to each other.
keeping in touch with every stakeholder regularly.
helping team to report to management.
Helping to further the Agile community within the organisation.
Organizing exchange events like Open Spaces or World Cafés for the team, its stakeholders, and its organisation.
Sharing insights throughout the company (micro-blogging, blogging, internal conferences, etc.).
Being a contact person for everyone in the team and their stakeholders regarding Agile.
Giving learning opportunities to people in the organization (e.g. talks or workshops) and letting them learn important Agile concepts like e.g. technical debt.
Change

Helping the team to get rid of impediments.
Suggesting new metrics for the team as catalysts for change.
Mirror

Reflecting Agile and Scrum values to the team.
Reminding the team of their arrangements (e.g. policies).
Helping the team to continuously improve their process.
Reflecting issues to the team through observation from outside of the team.
Asking open questions.
Checking all the models the team uses (e.g. Sprint backlog, metrics, etc.) and show them differences between the model and the real world.

miscellaneous:
helping team to keep focus (e.g. by acting as a buffer between external distractions and team).
helping team to maintain their scrum tools (story board, action board, charts, backlogs, etc.).
helping team and product owner to find a suitable definition of done, definition of ready.
